docs/Documentation.adoc, before:

= $AVE IT - Documentation
:site-section: DeveloperGuide
:toc:
:toc-title:
:toc-placement: preamble
:sectnums:
:imagesDir: images
:stylesDir: stylesheets
:xrefstyle: full
ifdef::env-github[]
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:warning-caption: :warning:
endif::[]
:repoURL: https://github.com/se-edu/addressbook-level3/tree/master

== Introduction

We use asciidoc for writing documentation.

[NOTE]
We chose asciidoc over Markdown because asciidoc, although a bit more complex than Markdown, provides more flexibility in formatting.

== Editing Documentation

See <<UsingGradle#rendering-asciidoc-files, UsingGradle.adoc>> to learn how to render `.adoc` files locally to preview the end result of your edits.
Alternatively, you can download the AsciiDoc plugin for IntelliJ, which allows you to preview the changes you have made to your `.adoc` files in real-time.

== Editing Diagrams

See <<UsingPlantUml#, UsingPlantUml.adoc>> to find out how to create and update the UML diagrams in the developer guide.

== Publishing Documentation

See <<UsingTravis#deploying-github-pages, UsingTravis.adoc>> to learn how to deploy GitHub Pages using Travis.

== Converting Documentation to PDF format

We use https://www.google.com/chrome/browser/desktop/[Google Chrome] for converting documentation to PDF format, as Chrome's PDF engine preserves hyperlinks used in webpages.

Here are the steps to convert the project documentation files to PDF format.

.  Follow the instructions in <<UsingGradle#rendering-asciidoc-files, UsingGradle.adoc>> to convert the AsciiDoc files in the `docs/` directory to HTML format.
.  Go to your generated HTML files in the `build/docs` folder, right click on them and select `Open with` -> `Google Chrome`.
.  Within Chrome, click on the `Print` option in Chrome's menu.
.  Set the destination to `Save as PDF`, then click `Save` to save a copy of the file in PDF format. For best results, use the settings indicated in the screenshot below.

.Saving documentation as PDF files in Chrome
image::chrome_save_as_pdf.png[width="300"]

[[Docs-SiteWideDocSettings]]
== Site-wide Documentation Settings

The link:{repoURL}/build.gradle[`build.gradle`] file specifies some project-specific https://asciidoctor.org/docs/user-manual/#attributes[asciidoc attributes] which affects how all documentation files within this project are rendered.

[TIP]
Attributes left unset in the `build.gradle` file will use their *default value*, if any.

[cols="1,2a,1", options="header"]
.List of site-wide attributes
|===
|Attribute name |Description |Default value

|`site-name`
|The name of the website.
If set, the name will be displayed near the top of the page.
|_not set_

|`site-githuburl`
|URL to the site's repository on https://github.com[GitHub].
Setting this will add a "View on GitHub" link in the navigation bar.
|_not set_

|`site-seedu`
|Define this attribute if the project is an official SE-EDU project.
This will render the SE-EDU navigation bar at the top of the page, and add some SE-EDU-specific navigation items.
|_not set_

|===

[[Docs-PerFileDocSettings]]
== Per-file Documentation Settings

Each `.adoc` file may also specify some file-specific https://asciidoctor.org/docs/user-manual/#attributes[asciidoc attributes] which affects how the file is rendered.

Asciidoctor's https://asciidoctor.org/docs/user-manual/#builtin-attributes[built-in attributes] may be specified and used as well.

[TIP]
Attributes left unset in `.adoc` files will use their *default value*, if any.

[cols="1,2a,1", options="header"]
.List of per-file attributes, excluding Asciidoctor's built-in attributes
|===
|Attribute name |Description |Default value

|`site-section`
|Site section that the document belongs to.
This will cause the associated item in the navigation bar to be highlighted.
One of: `UserGuide`, `DeveloperGuide`, ``LearningOutcomes``{asterisk}, `AboutUs`, `ContactUs`

_{asterisk} Official SE-EDU projects only_
|_not set_

|`no-site-header`
|Set this attribute to remove the site navigation bar.
|_not set_

|===

== Site Template

The files in link:{repoURL}/docs/stylesheets[`docs/stylesheets`] are the https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS[CSS stylesheets] of the site.
You can modify them to change some properties of the site's design.

The files in link:{repoURL}/docs/templates[`docs/templates`] controls the rendering of `.adoc` files into HTML5.
These template files are written in a mixture of https://www.ruby-lang.org[Ruby] and http://slim-lang.com[Slim].

[WARNING]
====
Modifying the template files in link:{repoURL}/docs/templates[`docs/templates`] requires some knowledge and experience with Ruby and Asciidoctor's API.
You should only modify them if you need greater control over the site's layout than what stylesheets can provide.
The SE-EDU team does not provide support for modified template files.
====

Commit message:

Refactor Name class to Info class

docs/Documentation.adoc, after:

= $AVE IT - Documentation
:site-section: DeveloperGuide
:toc:
:toc-title:
:toc-placement: preamble
:sectnums:
:imagesDir: images
:stylesDir: stylesheets
:xrefstyle: full
ifdef::env-github[]
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:warning-caption: :warning:
endif::[]
:repoURL: https://github.com/se-edu/addressbook-level3/tree/master

== Introduction

We use asciidoc for writing documentation.

[NOTE]
We chose asciidoc over Markdown because asciidoc, although a bit more complex than Markdown, provides more flexibility in formatting.

== Editing Documentation

See <<UsingGradle#rendering-asciidoc-files, UsingGradle.adoc>> to learn how to render `.adoc` files locally to preview the end result of your edits.
Alternatively, you can download the AsciiDoc plugin for IntelliJ, which allows you to preview the changes you have made to your `.adoc` files in real-time.

== Editing Diagrams

See <<UsingPlantUml#, UsingPlantUml.adoc>> to find out how to create and update the UML diagrams in the developer guide.

== Publishing Documentation

See <<UsingTravis#deploying-github-pages, UsingTravis.adoc>> to learn how to deploy GitHub Pages using Travis.

== Converting Documentation to PDF format

We use https://www.google.com/chrome/browser/desktop/[Google Chrome] for converting documentation to PDF format, as Chrome's PDF engine preserves hyperlinks used in webpages.

Here are the steps to convert the project documentation files to PDF format.

.  Follow the instructions in <<UsingGradle#rendering-asciidoc-files, UsingGradle.adoc>> to convert the AsciiDoc files in the `docs/` directory to HTML format.
.  Go to your generated HTML files in the `build/docs` folder, right click on them and select `Open with` -> `Google Chrome`.
.  Within Chrome, click on the `Print` option in Chrome's menu.
.  Set the destination to `Save as PDF`, then click `Save` to save a copy of the file in PDF format. For best results, use the settings indicated in the screenshot below.

.Saving documentation as PDF files in Chrome
image::chrome_save_as_pdf.png[width="300"]

[[Docs-SiteWideDocSettings]]
== Site-wide Documentation Settings

The link:{repoURL}/build.gradle[`build.gradle`] file specifies some project-specific https://asciidoctor.org/docs/user-manual/#attributes[asciidoc attributes] which affects how all documentation files within this project are rendered.

[TIP]
Attributes left unset in the `build.gradle` file will use their *default value*, if any.

[cols="1,2a,1", options="header"]
.List of site-wide attributes
|===
|Attribute info |Description |Default value

|`site-info`
|The info of the website.
If set, the info will be displayed near the top of the page.
|_not set_

|`site-githuburl`
|URL to the site's repository on https://github.com[GitHub].
Setting this will add a "View on GitHub" link in the navigation bar.
|_not set_

|`site-seedu`
|Define this attribute if the project is an official SE-EDU project.
This will render the SE-EDU navigation bar at the top of the page, and add some SE-EDU-specific navigation items.
|_not set_

|===

[[Docs-PerFileDocSettings]]
== Per-file Documentation Settings

Each `.adoc` file may also specify some file-specific https://asciidoctor.org/docs/user-manual/#attributes[asciidoc attributes] which affects how the file is rendered.

Asciidoctor's https://asciidoctor.org/docs/user-manual/#builtin-attributes[built-in attributes] may be specified and used as well.

[TIP]
Attributes left unset in `.adoc` files will use their *default value*, if any.

[cols="1,2a,1", options="header"]
.List of per-file attributes, excluding Asciidoctor's built-in attributes
|===
|Attribute info |Description |Default value

|`site-section`
|Site section that the document belongs to.
This will cause the associated item in the navigation bar to be highlighted.
One of: `UserGuide`, `DeveloperGuide`, ``LearningOutcomes``{asterisk}, `AboutUs`, `ContactUs`

_{asterisk} Official SE-EDU projects only_
|_not set_

|`no-site-header`
|Set this attribute to remove the site navigation bar.
|_not set_

|===

== Site Template

The files in link:{repoURL}/docs/stylesheets[`docs/stylesheets`] are the https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS[CSS stylesheets] of the site.
You can modify them to change some properties of the site's design.

The files in link:{repoURL}/docs/templates[`docs/templates`] controls the rendering of `.adoc` files into HTML5.
These template files are written in a mixture of https://www.ruby-lang.org[Ruby] and http://slim-lang.com[Slim].

[WARNING]
====
Modifying the template files in link:{repoURL}/docs/templates[`docs/templates`] requires some knowledge and experience with Ruby and Asciidoctor's API.
You should only modify them if you need greater control over the site's layout than what stylesheets can provide.
The SE-EDU team does not provide support for modified template files.
====
