docs/UsingNetlify.adoc, before:

= Using Netlify
:site-section: DeveloperGuide
:imagesDir: images
:stylesDir: stylesheets
ifdef::env-github[]
:note-caption: :information_source:
endif::[]

[NOTE]
====
This document was originally written for _AddressBook Level 4_ and hence its screenshots refer to `addressbook-level4`.
For use with _AddressBook Level 3_, wherever `addressbook-level4` is used in the screenshots, you should use *`addressbook-level3`*.
====

https://www.netlify.com/[Netlify] is an automated hosting platform for deploying static websites. With the aid of build tools such as Gradle, Netlify provides a smoother experience for previewing documentation. This can be done by using Netlify's https://www.netlify.com/blog/2016/07/20/introducing-deploy-previews-in-netlify/[Deploy Previews] feature, which shows a preview of the updated documentation whenever a pull request is made.

== Setting up Netlify
. Fork the repository to your own organization.
+
. Go to https://www.netlify.com/ and click `Sign Up`. Next, click `GITHUB SIGN IN`, enter your GitHub account details and authorize netlify.
+
. After logging in, click `New site from Git`.
+
. You will then be brought to the setup page. Click `GitHub` to link your repository to Netlify.
* Depending on whether you are the owner of the repository, you can either grant or request access to Netlify so that it can access your repository and build your documentation.
+
image:netlify/grant_or_request_access.png[Grant or request access, width = 630]
* After granting or requesting access to your repository, click `Authorize netlify`.
+
. Pick your repository from the list.
+
. Fill out the details as follows and then click `Deploy site`.
* Branch to deploy: select `master` branch
* Build command: `./gradlew asciidoctor`
+
[NOTE]
The build command is the command that builds the documentation into HTML format.
+
* Publish directory: `build/docs/html5`
[NOTE]
The publish directory is the directory in which the built HTML documentation resides.
+
. Once Netlify has completed building your project, you can now:
* View your main branch's deployed documentation on the site name given by Netlify (customizable as shown <<Changing the site name of your project, below>>).
+
image:netlify/temp_site_name.png[Temporary site name, width = 630]
+
* Preview the updated documentation whenever a pull request is made by clicking the `Details` hyperlink next to the Netlify test status.
+
image:netlify/netlify_details.png[Netlify details link, width = 630]

== Changing the site name of your project
If you don't like the site name given by Netlify, you can change it as follows:

. Click on `Settings`.
+
. Then click `Change site name` and fill in your desired site name.
+
image:netlify/change_site_name.png[Change site name, width = 630]

Commit message:

Refactor Name class to Info class

docs/UsingNetlify.adoc, after:

= Using Netlify
:site-section: DeveloperGuide
:imagesDir: images
:stylesDir: stylesheets
ifdef::env-github[]
:note-caption: :information_source:
endif::[]

[NOTE]
====
This document was originally written for _AddressBook Level 4_ and hence its screenshots refer to `addressbook-level4`.
For use with _AddressBook Level 3_, wherever `addressbook-level4` is used in the screenshots, you should use *`addressbook-level3`*.
====

https://www.netlify.com/[Netlify] is an automated hosting platform for deploying static websites. With the aid of build tools such as Gradle, Netlify provides a smoother experience for previewing documentation. This can be done by using Netlify's https://www.netlify.com/blog/2016/07/20/introducing-deploy-previews-in-netlify/[Deploy Previews] feature, which shows a preview of the updated documentation whenever a pull request is made.

== Setting up Netlify
. Fork the repository to your own organization.
+
. Go to https://www.netlify.com/ and click `Sign Up`. Next, click `GITHUB SIGN IN`, enter your GitHub account details and authorize netlify.
+
. After logging in, click `New site from Git`.
+
. You will then be brought to the setup page. Click `GitHub` to link your repository to Netlify.
* Depending on whether you are the owner of the repository, you can either grant or request access to Netlify so that it can access your repository and build your documentation.
+
image:netlify/grant_or_request_access.png[Grant or request access, width = 630]
* After granting or requesting access to your repository, click `Authorize netlify`.
+
. Pick your repository from the list.
+
. Fill out the details as follows and then click `Deploy site`.
* Branch to deploy: select `master` branch
* Build command: `./gradlew asciidoctor`
+
[NOTE]
The build command is the command that builds the documentation into HTML format.
+
* Publish directory: `build/docs/html5`
[NOTE]
The publish directory is the directory in which the built HTML documentation resides.
+
. Once Netlify has completed building your project, you can now:
* View your main branch's deployed documentation on the site info given by Netlify (customizable as shown <<Changing the site info of your project, below>>).
+
image:netlify/temp_site_name.png[Temporary site info, width = 630]
+
* Preview the updated documentation whenever a pull request is made by clicking the `Details` hyperlink next to the Netlify test status.
+
image:netlify/netlify_details.png[Netlify details link, width = 630]

== Changing the site info of your project
If you don't like the site info given by Netlify, you can change it as follows:

. Click on `Settings`.
+
. Then click `Change site info` and fill in your desired site info.
+
image:netlify/change_site_name.png[Change site info, width = 630]
